---
title: 'TIL: 2023-01-01'
date: '2023-01-01'
tags:
  - TIL
  - javascript
summary: "Today I learned: how to make a blog using Next.js and Markdown"
---


## TLDR
Today I finished my blog website, and I've done it using Next.js and Markdown. I got a few different options from some different colleges, but I ended up deciding this was the right option for me. If you're interested in the initial tutorial I followed, you can find it [here](https://some.website)!

## Goals and future plans
I'm hoping to use this page as a document to my progress and learnings over the next year. 

My first programming love was with Javascript, and I'm honestly really happy to be building in it again. I've had several websites in the past, but never one written with Javascript, or as advanced as this. I found my other sites to be really hard to maintain. My hope with the markdown is I'll be able to easily create posts and update content as I go, with the option of changing CSS as I feel. I currently have duplicate posts on [my Notion page](https://victoriaslocum.com), which is more of my website and documentation for my personal life. I am really transparent with what I'm doing and learning, and you can find a lot of my daily iterations on there as well. 

I can imagine the structure of this will change a lot over the course of the year, and I look forward to seeing everything I learn. 

## The content
Anyways, for the first post, I learned how to make a full blog from Next.js and Markdown. I followed a tutorial to get the inital stucture, and it took me about an hour to get oriented. I spent the second hour trying to figure out how to tag each post, and then I moved on to CSS and structure. 

I've deployed this using [Vercel](https://some.website). 

The whole process took me around _ hours over the course of _ days. I definitely learned a lot, but here's some of the highlights. 

1. 

